New PR for dagster_cloud.yaml (#13862)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/dagster-cloud/managing-deployments/dagster-cloud-yaml.mdx

          width: "15%",
        }}
      >
        <strong>Name</strong>
      </td>
      <td>dagster_cloud.yaml</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td
        style={{
          width: "15%",
        }}
      >
        <strong>Status</strong>
      </td>
      <td>Active</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td
        style={{
          width: "15%",
        }}
      >
        <strong>Required?</strong>
      </td>
      <td>Optional for Cloud</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td
        style={{
          width: "15%",
        }}
      >
        <strong>Description</strong>
      </td>
      <td> Similar to the `workspace.yaml` in open source to define code locations for Dagster Cloud.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td
        style={{
          width: "15%",
        }}
      >
        <strong>Uses</strong>
      </td>
      <td> Defines multiple code locations for Dagster Cloud. For Hybrid
        deployments, this file can be used{" "}
        <a href="/dagster-cloud/managing-deployments/setting-environment-variables-dagster-cloud-agents">
          to manage environment variables/secrets
        </a>
        <ul>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

---

> ## Settings schema

Author: done

> <Note>This reference is applicable to Dagster Cloud.</Note>

Author: done

The `dagster_cloud.yaml` file is used to configure how one or more [code locations](/dagster-cloud/managing-deployments/code-locations) should be built and deployed to [Dagster Cloud](/dagster-cloud), usually as part of CI/CD.

The file is required to tell Dagster where the code sources are to load into Dagster Cloud.

For [Hybrid Deployments](/dagster-cloud/deployment/hybrid), secrets are also configured in this file since secrets are part of a given code location.

> ### Where to put the dagster_cloud.yaml file

Author: updated

</TabGroup>

### Working directory

Use the `working_directory` setting to load Dagster code from a different directory than the root of your code repository. This setting allows you to specify the directory you want to load your code from.

Consider the following project:

```shell
quickstart_etl
├── README.md
├── project_directory
│   ├── quickstart_etl
│     ├── __init__.py
│     ├── assets
│   ├── quickstart_etl_tests
├── dagster_cloud.yaml
├── pyproject.toml
├── setup.cfg
└── setup.py
```

To load from `/project_directory`, the `dagster_cloud.yaml` code location would look like this:

```yaml
# dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
    working_directory: ./project_directory
```

### Build directory

The build registry is applicable to hybrid deployments only. Setting a build directory is useful if your `setup.py` or `requirements.txt` is in a subdirectory instead of the project root. This is common if you have multiple Python packages within a single Dagster project.

In the example below, the docker image for the code location is in the root directory and the registry and image defined. 

> Example:

Reviewer: Let's take this copy out - you stated above that there's an example, no need to state it again

    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
  - location_name: machine_learning
    code_source:
      python_file: ml/ml_model.py
```
</TabItem>
</TabGroup>

### Working directory

There might be some cases where you want to load your Dagster code from a different directory than the root of your code repository. You can specify the directory you want to load your Dagster code from in the dagster_cloud.yaml file using the `working_directory` option.

Example file directory:

```shell
quickstart_etl
├── README.md
├── project_directory
│   ├── quickstart_etl
│     ├── __init__.py
│     ├── assets
│   ├── quickstart_etl_tests
├── dagster_cloud.yaml
├── pyproject.toml
├── setup.cfg
└── setup.py
```
Example:

```yaml
#dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
    working_directory: ./project_directory
```

### Build directory

Setting a build directory is useful if your `setup.py` or `requirements.txt` is in a subdirectory instead of the project root. This is common if you have multiple Python packages within a single Dagster project.

The build registry is applicable to hybrid deployments only.

> Example:

Author: added some more context in the text blurb and more of an example in the code snippet

```yaml
# dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
    build:
      directory: ./
      registry: your-docker-image-registry/image-name
```

### Python executable

> If you are using Dagster Cloud Serverless, the Python executable to use is specified [here](https://docs.dagster.io/dagster-cloud/deployment/serverless#using-a-different-python-version). For Dagster Cloud Hybrid, the python executable that is installed globally in the image, or the default Python executable on the local system if you use the local agent, will be used. If you want to use a different python executable, you can specify it in the dagster_cloud.yaml file. It might also be useful to have different python executables for different code locations.

Reviewer: My comment on the old PR is still relevant IMO: https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster/pull/13646/files#r1172942811

Author: Serverless wouldnt be relevant here though -> should i link to the UI stuff?

Reviewer: I'm confused about this bit then - what is a Serverless user supposed to do with this setting?

```yaml
# dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
    executable_path: venvs/path/to/dataengineering_spark_team/bin/python
  - location_name: machine_learning
    code_source:
      python_file: ml_model.py
    executable_path: venvs/path/to/ml_tensorflow/bin/python
```

> ---

Reviewer: No rule is needed here, as the following heading is an H3. Only needed for H2!

### Container context

If using Hybrid deployment, you can define additional configuration options for code locations using 
the `container_context` parameter. Depending on the Hybrid agent you're using, the configuration settings under `container_context` will vary.

Refer to the configuration reference for your agent for more info: 

- [Docker agent configuration reference](/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/docker/configuration-reference)
- [Amazon ECS agent configuration reference](/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/amazon-ecs/configuration-reference#amazon-ecs-agent-configuration-reference)
- [Kubernetes agent configuration reference](/dagster-cloud/deployment/agents/kubernetes/configuration-reference)

---

## Settings

<ReferenceTable>
  <ReferenceTableItem propertyName="location_name">

>     The name of your code location that will appear in the Dagster UI code locations page 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The name of your code location that will appear in the Dagster UI Code locations page 
```

    <ul>
      <li>
        <strong>Format</strong> - <code>string</code>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </ReferenceTableItem>
      <ReferenceTableItem propertyName="code_source.package_name">

>     Use if your dagster code is structured as a package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The name of a package containing Dagster code
```

Suggesting a rewrite here, which makes it consistent with the way other descriptions are worded.

    <ul>
      <li>
        <strong>Format</strong> - <code>string</code>(folder name)
      </li>
    </ul>
  </ReferenceTableItem>
 <ReferenceTableItem propertyName="code_source.python_file">
     The name of a Python file containing Dagster code, for example: `analytics_pipeline.py` 
    <ul>
      <li>
        <strong>Format</strong> - <code>string</code>(.py file name)
      </li>
    </ul>
  </ReferenceTableItem>
 <ReferenceTableItem propertyName="code_source.module_name">
    The name of a Python module containing Dagster code, for example: `analytics_etl`
    <ul>
      <li>
        <strong>Format</strong> - <code>string</code>(module name)
      </li>
    </ul>
  </ReferenceTableItem>
 <ReferenceTableItem propertyName="working_directory">
    The path of the directory that Dagster should load the code source from
    <ul>
      <li>
        <strong>Format</strong> - <code>string</code>(path)
      </li>
    </ul>
  </ReferenceTableItem>
   <ReferenceTableItem propertyName="build.directory">

>     The path to the directory in your project that you want to deploy; the default is `.`. If there are subdirectories, you can specify the path to only deploy a specific project directory. 
>     <ul>
>       <li>
>         <strong>Format</strong> - <code>string</code>(path)
>       </li>
>     </ul>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The path to the directory in your project that you want to deploy. If there are subdirectories, you can specify the path to only deploy a specific project directory. 
    <ul>
      <li>
        <strong>Format</strong> - <code>string</code>(path)
      </li>
      <li>
        <strong>Default</strong> - <code>.</code>
    </ul>
```

Moving the default out of the paragraph

  </ReferenceTableItem>
     <ReferenceTableItem propertyName="build.registry">

>     The Docker registry to push your code location to in the registry (Hybrid only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <strong>Applicable to Hybrid deployments.</strong> The Docker registry to push your code location to in the registry
```

Let's lead with exclusions, if there are any

    <ul>
      <li>
        <strong>Format</strong> - <code>string</code>(docker registry)
      </li>
    </ul>
  </ReferenceTableItem>
       <ReferenceTableItem propertyName="executable_path">

>     The file path of the Python executable to use. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The file path of the Python executable to use
```

Removing the period to make this consistent with other definitions

│   ├── quickstart_ml
│     ├── __init__.py
│     ├── ml_assets
├── random_assets.py
├── quickstart_etl_tests
├── dagster_cloud.yaml
├── pyproject.toml
├── setup.cfg
└── setup.py
```

If your repository contains multiple Dagster projects in subdirectories - otherwise known as a monorepository - add the `dagster_cloud.yaml` file to the root of where the Dagster projects are stored.

---

## File structure

Settings are formatted using YAML. For example, using the file structure above as an example:

```yaml
# dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
    build:
      directory: ./quickstart_etl
      registry: localhost:5000/docker_image
  - location_name: ml-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_ml
    working_directory: ./ml_project
    executable_path: venvs/path/to/ml_tensorflow/bin/python
  - location_name: my_random_assets
    code_source:
      python_file: random_assets.py
    container_context:
      k8s:
        env_vars:
          - database_name
          - database_username=hooli_testing
        env_secrets:
          - database_password
```

---

## Settings

> The dagster_cloud.yaml file contains a single top-level key, locations. This key accepts a list of code locations; for each code location, you can configure the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dagster_cloud.yaml` file contains a single top-level key, `locations`. This key accepts a list of code locations; for each code location, you can configure the following:
```

│   ├── quickstart_ml
│     ├── __init__.py
│     ├── ml_assets
├── random_assets.py
├── quickstart_etl_tests
├── dagster_cloud.yaml
├── pyproject.toml
├── setup.cfg
└── setup.py
```

If your repository contains multiple Dagster projects in subdirectories - otherwise known as a monorepository - add the `dagster_cloud.yaml` file to the root of where the Dagster projects are stored.

---

## File structure

Settings are formatted using YAML. For example, using the file structure above as an example:

```yaml
# dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
    build:
      directory: ./quickstart_etl
      registry: localhost:5000/docker_image
  - location_name: ml-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_ml
    working_directory: ./ml_project
    executable_path: venvs/path/to/ml_tensorflow/bin/python
  - location_name: my_random_assets
    code_source:
      python_file: random_assets.py 
    container_context:
      k8s:
        env_vars:
          - database_name
          - database_username=hooli_testing
        env_secrets:
          - database_password
```

---

## Settings

> 

Author: updated

</ReferenceTable>

### Build

The build registry is applicable to hybrid deployments only. Setting a build directory is useful if your `setup.py` or `requirements.txt` is in a subdirectory instead of the project root. This is common if you have multiple Python packages within a single Dagster project.

In the example below, the Docker image for the code location is in the root directory and the registry and image defined:

```yaml
# dagster_cloud.yaml

locations:
  - location_name: data-eng-pipeline
    code_source:
      package_name: quickstart_etl
    build:
      directory: ./
      registry: your-docker-image-registry/image-name # e.g. localhost:5000/myimage
```

<ReferenceTable>
  <ReferenceTableItem propertyName="build.directory">
    The path to the directory in your project that you want to deploy. If there
    are subdirectories, you can specify the path to only deploy a specific
    project directory.
    <ul>
      <li>
        <strong>Format</strong> - <code>string</code>(path)
      </li>
      <li>
        <strong>Default</strong> - <code>.</code>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </ReferenceTableItem>
  <ReferenceTableItem propertyName="build.registry">

>     <strong>Applicable to Hybrid deployments.</strong> The Docker registry to
>     push your code location to in the registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <strong>Applicable to Hybrid deployments.</strong> The Docker registry to
    push your code location to
```

    <ul>
      <li>
        <strong>Format</strong> - <code>string</code>(docker registry)
      </li>
    </ul>
  </ReferenceTableItem>
</ReferenceTable>

### Python executable

> For Dagster Cloud Hybrid deployments, the Python executable that is installed globally in the image, or the default Python executable on the local system if you use the local agent, will be used. To use a different Python executable, specify it using the python_executable setting. It can be useful to have different Python executables for different code locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Dagster Cloud Hybrid deployments, the Python executable that is installed globally in the image, or the default Python executable on the local system if you use the local agent, will be used. To use a different Python executable, specify it using the `python_executable` setting. It can be useful to have different Python executables for different code locations.
```
